Big Data from tutorialspoint site pr thi vanchvu and commands pn

zip : tar - cvzf file.tar.gz destination/folder

c: create archieve
v: to show process in cmd
z: zip the tar file
f: to specify file name

unzip: tar -xvzf file.tar.gz destinion/name


CAP Theorem is comprised of three technical terms:
C – Consistency (All nodes see the data in homogeneous form i.e. every node has the same knowledge of data at any instant of time)

A – Availability (A guarantee that every request receives a response which may be processed or failed)

P – Partition Tolerance (The system continues to operate even if a message is lost or part of the system fails)

Any system which satisfies two out of these three properties is a distributed system.

Talking about Hadoop, it supports the Availability and Partition Tolerance property. The Consistency property is not supported because only namenode has the information of where the replicas are placed. This information is not available with each and every node of the cluster.




C] Consistency - All nodes see the same data at the same time.

Simply put, performing a read operation will return the value of the most recent write operation causing all nodes to return the same data. A system has consistency if a transaction starts with the system in a consistent state, and ends with the system in a consistent state. In this model, a system can (and does) shift into an inconsistent state during a transaction, but the entire transaction gets rolled back if there is an error during any stage in the process.

Typical relational databases are consistent: SQL Server, MySQL, and PostgreSQL.

[A] Availability - Every request gets a response on success/failure.

Achieving availability in a distributed system requires that the system remains operational 100% of the time. Every client gets a response, regardless of the state of any individual node in the system. This metric is trivial to measure: either you can submit read/write commands, or you cannot.

Typical relational databases are also available: SQL Server, MySQL, and PostgreSQL. This means that relational databases exist in the CA space - consistency and availability. However, CA is not only reserved for relational databases - some document-oriented tools like ElasticSearch also fall under the CA umbrella.

[P] Partition Tolerance - System continues to work despite message loss or partial failure.

Most people think of their data store as a single node in the network. “This is our production SQL Server instance”. Anyone who has run a production instance for more than four minutes, quickly realizes that this creates a single point of failure. A system that is partition-tolerant can sustain any amount of network failure that doesn’t result in a failure of the entire network. Data records are sufficiently replicated across combinations of nodes and networks to keep the system up through intermittent outages.